.TH REMEDY 1 "2026-05-01" "remedy 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
remedy \- a full-featured markdown pager for modern terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B remedy
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file.md ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B remedy
is a less-like pager that renders Markdown with full formatting support.
It displays headings, bold, italic, code blocks with syntax highlighting,
tables with box-drawing borders, clickable hyperlinks, inline images,
and more.
.PP
If no file is given,
.B remedy
reads from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-diagnose
Check markdown for issues and exit. Prints diagnostics to stdout
and exits with code 0 if healthy, 1 if issues are found.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.SS Navigation
.TP
.BR j ", " Down ", " Enter
Scroll down one line.
.TP
.BR k ", " Up
Scroll up one line.
.TP
.BR f ", " Space ", " PgDn
Page down.
.TP
.BR b ", " PgUp
Page up.
.TP
.BR d ", " Ctrl-D
Half page down.
.TP
.BR u ", " Ctrl-U
Half page up.
.TP
.BR g ", " Home
Go to top of document.
.TP
.BR G ", " End
Go to bottom of document.
.SS Search
.TP
.B /
Search forward. Type a query and press Enter.
.TP
.B ?
Search backward.
.TP
.B n
Jump to next match.
.TP
.B N
Jump to previous match.
.SS Features
.TP
.B t
Open table of contents overlay. Navigate with j/k, press Enter to jump.
.TP
.B D
Open diagnosis overlay showing markdown issues.
.TP
.B h
Show help overlay with keybinding reference.
.TP
.B Ctrl-L
Redraw screen.
.TP
.BR q ", " ESC
Quit.
.SH MARKDOWN SUPPORT
.B remedy
supports CommonMark and GitHub Flavored Markdown (GFM) extensions:
.PP
.RS 4
Headings (6 levels, color-coded)
.br
Bold, italic, bold+italic
.br
Inline code and fenced code blocks with syntax highlighting
.br
Blockquotes with vertical bar prefix
.br
Ordered and unordered lists with nested bullet cycling
.br
Strikethrough
.br
Links with OSC 8 clickable hyperlinks
.br
Images via Kitty graphics protocol (PNG, JPEG, GIF, BMP)
.br
Tables with box-drawing borders and column alignment
.br
Horizontal rules
.RE
.PP
Syntax highlighting is supported for C, C++, Python, JavaScript,
TypeScript, Rust, Go, Java, and Shell/Bash.
.PP
On terminals with the Kitty graphics protocol (Kitty, Ghostty, WezTerm),
images are displayed inline with correct aspect ratio.
On other terminals, a text placeholder is shown.
.SH DIAGNOSIS
.B remedy \-\-diagnose
checks markdown for common issues:
.PP
.RS 4
Heading hierarchy (skipped levels, multiple H1s, missing H1)
.br
Broken local image references
.br
Missing image alt text
.br
Empty or missing link URLs
.br
Links without display text
.br
Code blocks missing language hints
.br
Empty code blocks
.br
Table column count mismatches
.br
Trailing whitespace
.br
Excessive blank lines
.RE
.PP
Issues are classified as errors (broken rendering) or warnings
(style/best practice).
.SH STDIN
.B remedy
supports piped input:
.PP
.RS 4
cat README.md | remedy
.br
curl -s https://example.com/doc.md | remedy
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success, or no issues found (with \-\-diagnose).
.TP
.B 1
Issues found (with \-\-diagnose), or error.
.SH AUTHORS
Kris Kersey and Claude (Anthropic).
.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-or-later
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR less (1),
.BR glow (1),
.BR mdcat (1)
